# Issues and Pull Requests Workflow

This page documents the process to follow to work on an issue and submit a pull request

## Issues 

Issues are units of work the need to be done in the onos project. 

### Find an issue
If you have something in mind to work on please use the _search_  in the [issues](https://github.com/onosproject/onos-config/issues).

### Open an issue
If you want to work on something which is not tracked in our current set of issues please open one and assign it to a given project (e.g. northbound).

### Work on an Issue
After you found or created an issue or opened a new one you need to:
* assign that issue to yourself
* go to the [projects](https://github.com/onosproject/onos-config/projects)
* select the project you have assigned the issue to
* drang and drop the issue to the `In Progress` column to let people know that you are working on it. 

## Pull Requests

This section describes how to open a pull request and put into one of the different projects in onos-config.

### Referencing an issue from your commit
If you have an issue identifying your work in onos-config [issues](https://github.com/onosproject/onos-config/issues), 
To automatically link your pull request an issue, before pushing a commit to your fork of onos-config please insert 
```
Fixes #<issue-number>
```
at the end of your commit message before any autogenerated elements.
the `<issue-number>` is the grey number after the issue title on github.
See here for an example of a complete commit message:
```
Adding pull request workflow
Fixes #90

# Please enter the commit message for your changes. Lines starting
# with '#' will be ignored, and an empty message aborts the commit.
#
# Date:      Fri May 10 11:36:26 2019 +0200
#
# On branch pr-process
# Changes to be committed:
#       new file:   docs/Pull_requests.md
#
# Changes not staged for commit:
#       modified:   docs/Pull_requests.md
#
```

### Open a pull request
When you open a pull request for _myfeature_ you need to add the PR to a `project` (e.g. northbound) through the github UI. 
Please also assign a reviewer out of the suggested ones. If non are suggested please pick one form the core team.     
More information on opening pull request can be found [here](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request)


### Tracking a pull request
After your pull request is included into a onos-config _project_ you can find it under the `In Progress` tab.  
At this point in time the PR will go through a lifecycle:
* Review from different people --> your PR will go into the `under-review` state
* if changes are requested you will have to go back and address them
* when your PR is approved and Testing is passed it will go under `reviewer approved` state
* after the PR is in `reviewer approved` it can be merged
* when the PR is merged both the PR and the issue will move under `Done` state